.TH \fBNeMeSI\fP 1 "February 1, 2005" "Network Media Streamer I" "Open Media Streaming Project"
.SH NAME
nemesi \- standards-compliant multimedia streaming client
.br
gnemesi \- standards-compliant multimedia streaming client
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nemesi 
.RB [ " options " ]
.RB [ " media URL " ]
.br
.B gnemesi 
.RB [ " options " ]
.RB [ " media URL " ]
.TP
.I media URL
The RTSP URL (starting with rtsp://) of the multimedia file that you want play.
.RS
.IR Example :
.BR nemesi " rtsp://remotehost:port/media"
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBNeMeSI\fP is a streaming client that allows user to enjoy playback of
multimedia files with low latency transport over IP-based networks. This
software is fully compliant with  IETF's standards for real\-time streaming of
multimedia contents over Internet.  \fBNeMeSI\fP implements RTSP \- Real\-Time
Streaming Protocol (RFC2326) and RTP/RTCP \- Real\-Time Transport Protocol/RTP
Control Protocol (RFC3550) supporting the RTP Profile for Audio and Video
Conferences with Minimal Control (RFC3551).
.br
\fBNeMeSI\fP supports the following decoding standards:
.sp 1
.RS
.I Audio
.IP
\(bu
MP3 (MPEG-1 Layer III) (RFC3119).
.IP
\(bu
GSM-AMR (3rd generation GSM) (RFC3267).
.RE
.sp 1
.RS
.I Video
.IP
\(bu
MPEG-1/2 (RFC2250).
.RE
.PP
\fBNeMeSI\fP features an adaptive behaviour achieved by the innovative
\fBDynamic CoDec Switching\fP technique.
.PP
\fBNeMeSI\fP is the official streaming client for the \fBOpen Media Streaming
Project\fP (
.UH
http://streaming.polito.it
) which is is a free/libre project software for the development of a platform
for the streaming of multimedia contents. The platform is based on the full
support of the IETF's standards for the real\-time data transport over IP. The aim
of the project is to provide an open solution, free and interoperable along
with the proprietary streaming applications currently dominant on the market.

\fBgnemesi\fP is \fBNeMeSI\fP with a Graphical User Interface. It has the same
options as \fBNeMeSI\fP.
You can start \fBNeMeSI\fP with the GUI also running it
with the \fI--gui\fP command line option.

.SH GENERAL OPTIONS
.TP
.B -h
List command-line options.
.TP
.B -V
Print version.
.TP
.B -v [n]
Set verbosity level
.TP
.B --gui
use Graphical User Interface.
.TP
.B --tui
use Textual User Interface (e-tui)
.SH GENERAL OUTPUT OPTIONS
.B --sysbuff <msec>
.RS
Set the
.B system buffer
cache of decoded milliseconds.
.RE
.TP
.B --noaudio
Do not inizialize audio output module
.TP
.B --novideo
Do not inizialize video output module
.TP
.B --nodisk
Do not inizialize diskwriter output module
.SH AUDIO OUTPUT OPTIONS
.B --ao <driver1[:device],driver2,...,[...]>
.RS
Specify a list of audio output drivers.
.RE
If the list ends with "..." then
\fBNeMeSI\fP will also try the other installed audio drivers, not listed on the command line, if all
the provided drivers don't work.
.BR
.I NOTE:
Use --ao help to view the list of available audio drivers.
.
Available audio output drivers are:
.TP
.B sdl\ \ \ \ 
Highly platform independent SDL (Simple Directmedia Layer) library
output driver.
.TP
.B oss\ \ \ \ 
Open Sound System audio driver
.SH VIDEO OUTPUT OPTIONS
.B --vo <driver1[:option],driver2,...,[...]>
.RS
Specify a list of video output drivers.
.RE
If the list ends with "..." then
\fBNeMeSI\fP will also try the other installes video drivers, not listed on the command line, if all
the provided drivers don't work.
.BR
.I NOTE:
Use --vo help to view the list of available video drivers.
.
Available video output drivers are:
.TP
.B sdl\ \ \ \ 
Highly platform independent SDL (Simple Directmedia Layer) library
output driver.
.SH USAGE
.SS Command line invocation
Normally \fBNeMeSI\fP is started with
.RS
.PP
.BI nemesi " urlname"
.RE
.PP
which runs \fBNeMeSi\fP and even try to open the URL described in
.IR "urlname".
This is equivalent to running \fBNeMeSI\fP in the command line
.RS
.PP
.B nemesi
.RE
.PP
and then issuing an open command
.RB "(" open " or " o ")"
at \fIMore-Touch E-Tui\fP prompt (see \fB Textual User Interface\fP below) when
\fBNeMeSI\fP is in the \fIINIT\fP state.

If the bootstrap phase executes whitout errors and the connection is already
established, \fBNeMeSI\fP provides the prompt in the \fIREADY\fP state, ready
to accept some command. It's a good idea to issue now a
.BR play " (or " p ")"
command to start the playback of the streaming session.

The playback can be paused with the command \fBzause\fP or stopped (which is
like a pause plus a rewind) typing \fBstop\fP.
The command \fBclose\fP will end the connection with the streaming server and
will return \fBNeMeSI\fP in the \fIINIT\fP state. A \fBquit\fP command exits
\fBNeMeSI\fP and returns to the shell prompt.

.SS Bootstrap messages
The messages printed at bootstrap phase show
.IP
\(bu
the names of the
.I plugins
loaded and the
.I RTP Payload Type
they manage
.IP
\(bu
some informations about the setup of the audio and video drivers
.SS Textual user interface
.B \fBNeMeSI\fP
features the innovative
.I More-Touch Electric-Textual User Interface
for both prompting and parsing user commands. MT-ETUI accepts following commands:
.TP
.BR help " or " ?
print help
.TP
.B quit
quit the program
.TP
.B version
print informations about \fBNeMeSI\fP
.TP
.BR open " urlname"
connect to the urlname
.TP
.B info
print info about the session
.TP
.BR play " [range]"
start the playback. The optional field
.I range
selects the start and stop time of the media to playback.
The format for
.I range
option is
.RS
.IP 
hh:mm:ss-HH:MM:SS
.RE
.IP
which instructs
.B \fBNeMeSI\fP
to start the playback of the stream at 
.I hh 
hours, 
.I mm 
minutes and 
.I ss
seconds and stop it at
.I HH
hours,
.I MM
minuts and
.I SS
seconds. Examples, showing
.B \fBNeMeSI\fP
prompt, of accepted command formats are:
.RS
.TP
.RB "[ READY ] " "play 20:10-1:4:50"
The playback starts at 20 minutes, 10 seconds and stops at 1 hour, 4 minutes and
50 seconds.
.TP 
.RB "[ READY ] " "play 15-"
The playback starts at 15 seconds and stops at the end (if any) of the stream.
.TP
.RB "[ READY ] " "play -25:6"
The playback starts at the very beginning of the stream and stops at 25 minutes and
6 seconds.
.RE
.TP
.BR zause
pause the playback
.TP
.BR stop
stop the playback
.TP
.BR close
close the connection
.TP
Every command accepts also its first char as abbreviation (e.g. 'h' for 'help').

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B NEMESI_PLUGIN_DIR
Name of the alternative plugin directory. This should be an absolute path,
since you will probably invoke \fBNeMeSI\fP from different directories. The
value of \fINEMESI_PLUGIN_DIR\fP will be used instead of the compiled-in default.
.TP
.B NEMESI_THROBBER_DIR
Name of the alternative directory for the spinning throbber in the GUI. The
value of \fINEMESI_THROBBER_DIR\fP will be used instead of the compiled-in default.
.TP
.B NEMESI_PIXMAP_DIR
Name of the alternative directory for the GUI pixmaps. The
value of \fINEMESI_PIXMAP_DIR\fP will be used instead of the compiled-in default.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.IP 0
No errors.
.IP 1
There were errors.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBNeMeSI\fP documentation at Open Media Streaming Project home page (
.UH
http://streaming.polito.it
).

.SH AUTHORS
\fBNeMeSI\fP was written by \fBOMSP Team\fP.
.PP
This manual page was written and maintained by \fBOMSP Team\fP <streaming@multimedia.polito.it>.
.PP
Please check 
.UH
http://streaming.polito.it/team
for further details.
